# WebApp-MBTA
 This is the base repo for Web App Developement project. Please read [instructions](instructions.md). 

# Project Writeup 

# 1. 
In this project, we create a website which helps users to find the nearest MBA station and other useful informations based on their location or address inputs. To do so, we first request API developer keys from various different sources, and read the API documentations in order to understand the return format and how to request the such data. We then used json to request such information from the URL given the parameters and we are able to obtain the coordinates of a given place as longitude and latitude returns. Using the longitude and latitude returns, we are then able to create other functions in such a way that uses these information to obtain other information of the given location using other APIs. For instance, by providing the latitude and longitude, we are able to determine the nearest MBA stations by using the MBA API, and the weather information using the Openweather API. Taking all of these information and output returns, we then create a web APP using Flask. With the help of chatGDP and online resources, we are able to develop a functional web application. The web application takes the input location from the user and will output the nearest MBTA station, the current weather, and a nearby event. Overall, we want to provide our users with not only a useful tool but also a fancy experience in that we have a cool and entertaining background as well as other useful information. 

# 2. 
Our project went well in such that we are able to successfully define all the helper functions and get the website to function properly. We are able to construct every part of the project components without much difficulty, but there are still various rooms for improvements. First of all, as mentioned in class, there can be multiple error messages for different types of user input. Currently, there is one type of error messages for any kinds of incorrect important. If the input is not valid such that it is not a viable address or any kinds of gibberish, it will output the same error message saying there is an input error. I feel like that could definitely be improved upon with other projects, and allow the website to show the error message based on the error type. Another improvement that could be added is the predicting factor and the map visualization. Currently there are no function that will display the map of the given location, and I feel like we could implement that to improve the user experience when using the app application, In terms of project scoping and testing, I believe we could have tried more various different user inputs. Currently, the web application is doing the minimal. It will display the MBTA station and other informations with the a given address or place name, but we can test and implement other functions in such that perhaps there is a drop down menu that shows multiple nearby stations and how many blocks are they away. 

# 3. 
In general, we were able to divide our works evenly. Initially we are trying to both work on the helper functions, but Jake’s laptop died (had to get service board replaced). So, Jason did most of the work for the helper functions and Jake reviewed it afterwards. With the helper functions being completed, Jake was able to construct the HTML portion and incorporate other API into the code. We then worked to together to format the website and make sure everything will work properly. There wasn’t much issues when we were working on the project, but we wish we had started working on the project sooner. We are able to finish the project on time, but that leaves us with little time to improve our code. We, therefore, decide to start the term project as early as possible to make sure the term project is completed and done well. 

# 4. 
Throughout this project, we learn about how to build helper functions and how to incorporate them into our html web applications. Previously, we didn't have any knowledge on html or anything related to web application development, but by working on this project, we are able to learn more about html and Flask. We also learned more about APIs and are more comfortable about extracting data through API requests. One of the few things that chatGDP has helped us with is formatting on the web. There are different rules for different display styles and the use of containers, we are able to use chatGDP for formatting. Furthermore, ChatGDP also help us with data extraction. There data sources have different formats, and ChatGDP is able to determine how to obtain the data that we need. For instance, one of the variables we need for the event is the start date of the event. we were able to use chatGDP to effectively locate that dictionary key and its value. However, for one of the APIs that were tried, were tried to use latitude and longitude to display a different background image every time based on the user input. We tried to use chatGDP for help and it is able to find us the appropriate API and dictionary key, but for some reason it didn’t work. We believe that the dictionary key didn’t exist and chatGDP had used wrong dictionary. ChatGDP also help with understanding the different methods and code as well as debugging our code. Overall, we learnt a lot based off other resources and the use of chatGDP and we can incoporate these knowledge for our final projects. 
